1. Title of Database: Crops Data

2. Sources:
	(a) Origin owners Of Database:
	Department of Computer Application
	National Institute Of Technology, Raipur
	(contact:Afsar Ahmad 918630321244,afsaredrisy@gmail.com)
	(b) Donor of database:
		Afsar Ahmad (MCA 3rd year NIT , Raipur afsaredisy@gmail.com)
		Madhavi Kumari (MCA 3rd year NIT ,Raipur kumarimadhavi25"gmail.com)

3. Past Usage:
	Dataset was used in All India Research Championship(AIRC) at (IIT kanpur)
	


   -- Test set performance (final 1044 examples, first 3133 used for training):
	24.86% Cascade-Correlation (no hidden nodes)
	26.25% Cascade-Correlation (5 hidden nodes)
	21.5%  C4.5
	 0.0%  Linear Discriminate Analysis
	 3.57% k=2 Nearest Neighbour
      (Problem encoded as a classification task)

-- Data set samples are highly overlapped.  Further information is required
	to separate completely using affine combinations.  Other restrictions
	to data set examined.


4. Relevant Information Paragraph:

   Dataset can be used to train the Machine Learning model which will
   predict whether irrigation is required or not based on the values 
   of 5 parametrs.  

   From the original data examples with missing values were removed (the
   majority having the predicted value missing), and the ranges of the
   continuous values have been scaled.
6. Number of Attributes: 6

7. Attribute information:
	Given is the attribute name, attribute type, the measurement unit and a
   brief description.  The number of class is the value to predict: either
   as a continuous value or as a classification problem.

	Name		Data Type	Meas.	Description
	----		---------	-----	-----------
	CropType	nominal			fixed Numeric values (1->Wheat blow is for all)
	CropDays	nominal			Days passed after sowing crop
	SoilMoisture	continuous	DHT11	Soil Moisture , Can be read by soil moisture sensor
	temperature	continuous	°C	perpendicular to length
	Humidity	continuous	%	with meat in shell
	Y (class)	Binary			1 for Irrigation required 0 for not

	CropTypes possible Values
	Value				Crop
	----				----
	1				Wheat
	2				Ground Nuts
	3				Garden flowers
	4				Maize
	5				Paddy
	6				Potato
	7				pulse
	8				SugerCane
	9				coffee


 

